GETMBR.COM

When should you use GETMBR.COM?

	You should use the GETMBR.COM program if Norton AntiVirus 
reports that you have a Master Boot Record virus on your computer 
which Norton AntiVirus is unable to repair.  Master Boot Record 
viruses typically infect both floppy diskettes and hard drives; these 
viruses do not infect application or other files.  Occasionally, Norton 
AntiVirus will detect a new or unknown Master Boot Record virus 
strain which it cannot repair. For instance, if Norton AntiVirus detects 
any of the following new viruses:

	Bloodhound.MBR
	Bloodhound.Boot.String
	
the GETMBR.COM program can be used to obtain information to send 
to the Symantec AntiVirus Research Center (SARC) so we can analyze 
it and provide you with a cure.

What does GETMBR.COM do?        

	The GETMBR.COM program gathers information from your hard 
drive(s) that can be used to diagnose Master Boot Record computer 
virus infections.  This information is placed in a file in the current 
directory called MBR.DAT which you can send to SARC for analysis.  

How do I use GETMBR.COM?

If you are running Windows 95:

1. Run the GETMBR.COM program from a DOS box, from Windows 
Explorer or by using the Run command from the Windows Start menu.

2. The GETMBR.COM program will create a file called MBR.DAT.  If 
you run this program from your hard drive or from a floppy diskette, 
the MBR.DAT file will be placed in the same folder as the 
GETMBR.COM program. 

3. Send the file MBR.DAT to SARC.


If you are running Windows NT:

1. Create a bootable floppy diskette:
	A. Place an unused floppy diskette in drive A:   This diskette will be 
	formatted and all contents will be lost, so don't use an important 
	diskette.
	B. Start Windows Explorer.
	C. Select drive A:
	D. Right click the mouse on drive A: and select "Format."  A formatting 
	screen will be displayed.
	E. On the formatting screen, make sure the "Full" format and "Copy 
	system files" options are selected.
	F. Click "Start".  
	
2. Once the diskette has been formatted, copy the GETMBR.COM 
program to the diskette in drive A:

3. Shut down Windows NT and restart your computer from the floppy 
diskette in drive A:

4. Run the GETMBR.COM program from drive A:

5. The MBR.DAT file will be placed on your diskette in drive A:.  Send 
the file to SARC.


