        Shutting down/Bringing up/Tickling an Immune System gateway array
                           IBM/Symantec confidential
                 Ian Whalley, <inw@us.ibm.com>, +1-914-784-7808
             Edward Pring, <pring@watson.ibm.com>, +1-914-784-6285
                                   2000-05-04


Introduction

  As the reader will be aware, a major part of the functionality of the Immune
  System is provided by so-called 'gateways'.  Gateways form the bridge between
  the customer site, and the back office systems (in the form of the Analysis
  Centre, and manual processing within SARC).  A component of the Immune System
  software (known either as the Symantec Quarantine Agent for Windows [SQUAW] or
  as IcePack) runs on the Quarantine Server machines within the client's
  organisation -- it is this component which talks to the Immune System
  gateways.

  The gateways perform a large amount of the work that goes on within the whole
  Immune System structure.  In order to build capacity into the system,
  individual gateways are made up of multiple machines -- the resulting set of
  machines is called a 'gateway array'.  The machines making up a gateway array
  are, to a great extent, interdependent, and consequently care must be taken
  when restarting machines within the array.


General structure of a gateway array

  [Whilst it is not the intention of this document to provide a complete
   description of how a gateway works, it is necessary to provide basic
   information to set the rest of the document in context.]

  The archetypal gateway array consists of seven machines (and all instances of
  the gateway array so far built also consist of seven machines, although they
  may in the future consist of a greater or lesser number of machines).  These
  machines are:

      DNS name     Shortname       Orientation            Purpose
    gwNNentry01      Entry      [customer-facing]   Customer entry-point
    gwNNdef01         Def1      [customer-facing]   Definition downloader
    gwNNdef02         Def2      [customer-facing]   Definition downloader
    gwNNdef03         Def3      [customer-facing]   Definition downloader
    gwNNsample01     Sample     [customer-facing]   Sample importer
    gwNNinside01     Inside     [SARC-facing]       SARA entry-point
    gwNNdata01        Data      [hidden]            Gateway array server

  'Data' is the machine to which we must pay the greatest attention, at least
  when it comes to the process for starting and shutting down a gateway array.
  Whilst all the machines listed above are running Windows NT Server, and all
  are members of a workgroup, the machine called 'Data' is the one upon which
  all the others depend.

  'Data' provides two vital services to the other machines in the array.  First,
  it hosts some Windows-style drive shares which the other machines use; and
  second, it hosts the DB/2 database server to which the other machines must
  connect.

  The other machines are all identical, from the point of view of this document.
  They are all, fundamentally, web server machines.


Terminology

  Throughout the remainder of this document, the following terms are used

    Web server machine      All machines _apart_from_ the 'Data' machine are
                            web server machines -- this is, of course, because
                            each one is running an instance of Lotus Go.
    Isolate                 Of a 'web server machine' (qv), to completely stop
                            Lotus Go.  This has the effect of prevent customers
                            or SARC from contacting the machine in the normal
                            way.


Isolating a single web server machine

  To isolate a single web server machine, perform the following sequence of
  operations:

    * Close Lotus Go by clicking the standard Windows 'Close' icon at the top
      right of the Go GUI.
    * Wait for the GUI to disappear (this may take up to 30 minutes, as Lotus
      Go attempts to let all connections currently in progress complete)
    * Close the AVIS Monitor window by clicking on the standard Windows
      'Close' icon at the top right of the GUI.
    * Open Task Manager, select the 'Processes' tab, click on the 'Image Name'
      header until the list is sorted reverse-alphabetically.
    * Look for an entry 'wHTTPg.EXE' in the 'Image Name' column.  If one is
      found, select it and use the 'End Process' button to kill it. 

  That web server machine will now refuse incoming Immune System connections.


Shutting down a gateway array

  If it is necessay to shut down a gateway array, the procedure to follow is:

    * Isolate 'Entry'.  This will prevent new connections from being directed to
      any of the sample importer or definition downloader machines.
    * Shut down 'Entry'.
    * Wait until there are no longer any sessions in progress on the sample
      importer and definition downloader machines ('Sample', 'Def1', 'Def2',
      and 'Def3').
    * Isolate the sample importer and definition downloader machines.
    * Shut down the sample importer and definition downloader machines.
    * Isolate 'Inside'.
    * Shut down 'Inside'.
    [At this point, all the machines in the gateway array apart from 'Data'
    should be off.]
    * Shut down 'Data'.  There is no need to close anything running on it
      before shutting it down.

  Congratulations, the gateway array has been safely shut down.


Starting a gateway array

  When starting a gateway array, the procedure to follow is:

    [At this point, all machines in the gateway array should be powered off.]
    * Switch on 'Data'.  Allow the machine to boot, Windows NT to start up,
      the default user to be logged on, DB/2 to start, and the machine to
      settle down.  Check that DB/2 is running, and that the appropriate
      drives are shared (see gateway setup document).
    * Switch on 'Inside', and all of the sample and definition machines
      ('Sample', 'Def1', 'Def2', and 'Def3').  Allow them to boot, the
      default user to be logged on, Lotus Go to start, and the
      machines to settle down.
    * Finally, switch on 'Entry'.  Allow the default user to be logged on,
      Lotus Go to start, and the machine to settle down.

  Congratulations, the gateway array has been safely restarted.


'Tickling' a gateway array

  After a gateway array has been started, it operates entirely
  automatically.  The administrator may verify that the gateway is
  operating correctly by remotely exercising each of its network
  transactions.  

  Individual network transactions can be exercised by running the
  tickleGate.pl program with appropriate arguments.  The program
  displays a list of supported arguments when executed without
  arguments.  If successful, the program displays a summary of the
  transaction, and returns a zero completion code.  If unsuccessful,
  the program displays a error message, and returns a non-zero
  completion code indicating which network layer failed.

  For convenience, the tickle_gw01.bat and tickle_gw02.bat programs
  run the tickleGate.pl program once for each network transaction
  (except sample import and signature export), with the appropriate
  arguments for each gateway array.

  These programs may be run on any workstation that has TCP/IP network
  access to the gateway array.


Shutting down individual machines in a gateway array

  In most cases, it should not be necessary to shut down the whole array.  In
  fact, in most cases, the administrator will only _want_ to shut down one
  machine (presumably to perform essential maintenance).

  All web server machines in the gateway array (that is to say, all machines
  _except_ 'Data') can be shut down independently of any of the others.  In all
  cases (except for 'Data'), simply isolate the machine.  When isolation is
  complete, the machine is cut off from customers and from SARC, and can be
  upgraded as necessary.

  However, if it is necessary to modify the hardware or software on the 'Data'
  machine, the administrator must shut down all the other machines in the array
  before 'Data'.  Follow the instructions under 'Shutting down a gateway array'
  to bring down all the other machines first, and then 'Data'.


Performing a software or hardware upgrade on all machines in a gateway array

  In this case, the administrator may use the following sequence of operations
  to minimise overall gateway downtime.

    * Follow instructions under 'Shutting down a gateway array'.
    * Perform the upgrade on 'Data'.  Restart 'Data', and allow it to come up
      and settle down.
    * Perform the upgrade on 'Inside'.  Restart 'Inside', and allow it to come
      up and settle down.
    * Perform the upgrade on the sample importers and definition downloaders,
      in any order.  Allow them all to to come up and settle down.
    * Finally, perform the upgrade on 'Entry'.  Allow it to come up and settle
      down.

  Congratulations, the gateway array has been upgraded.


Conclusion

  As with any Internet server, it is necessary to think carefully before taking
  any action with any machine in any gateway array.  The gateway array is
  designed to function as a single unit, and ill-considered actions will (at the
  very least) cause the gateway downtime to be longer than it needs to be.  On
  the other hand, by making modifications in a well-ordered fashion will
  minimise disruption and downtime.
