NOTICE:
Symantec licenses the accompanying software to you only upon the condition that you accept all of the terms contained in this license agreement.  Please read the terms carefully before continuing installation, as pressing the "next" button will indicate your assent to them.  If you do not agree to these terms, please press the "cancel" button to exit install as Symantec is unwilling to license the software to you.

LICENSE AND WARRANTY:
The software which accompanies this license (the "Software") is the property of Symantec or its licensers and is protected by copyright law.  While Symantec continues to own the Software, you will have certain rights to use the Software after your acceptance of this license.  Except as may be modified by a license addendum which accompanies this license, your rights and obligations with respect to the use of this Software are as follows: 

YOU MAY:
(i)  use one copy of the Software on a single computer; 

(ii) make copies of this software available to other end users provided that (a) you do not receive any remuneration for such transfer and (b) such end users agree to the terms and conditions of this license and warranty.  

YOU MAY NOT:
(i) copy the printed documentation which accompanies the Software;

(ii) sublicense, rent or lease any portion of the Software;

(iii) reverse engineer, decompile, disassemble, modify, translate, make any attempt to discover the source code of the Software, or create derivative works from the Software; or

(iv) use a previous version or copy of the Software after you have received a disk replacement set or an upgraded version  as a replacement of the prior version, unless you donate a previous version of an upgraded version to a charity of your choice, and such charity agrees in writing that it will be the sole end user of the product, and that it will abide by the terms of this agreement.  Unless you so donate a previous version of an upgraded version, upon upgrading the Software, all copies of the prior version must be destroyed.

DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES:
        Regardless of whether any remedy set forth herein fails of its essential purpose, in no event will Symantec be liable to you for any special, consequential, indirect or similar damages, including any lost profits or lost data arising out of the use or inability to use the software even if Symantec has been advised of the possibility of such damages.
        Some states do not allow the limitation or exclusion of liability for incidental or consequential damages so the above limitation or exclusion may not apply to you.
        In no case shall Symantec's liability exceed the purchase price for the software.  The disclaimers and limitations set forth above will apply regardless of whether you accept the Software.

U.S. GOVERNMENT RESTRICTED RIGHTS:
Restricted rights legend. Use, duplication, or disclosure by the Government is subject to restrictions as set forth in subparagraph (c) (1) (ii) of the Rights in Technical Data and Computer Software clause at DFARS 252.227-7013 or subparagraphs (c) (1) and (2) of the Commercial Computer Software-Restricted Rights clause at 48 CFR 52.227-19, as applicable, Symantec Corporation, 10201 Torre Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014.

GENERAL:
This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the State of California.  This Agreement may only be modified by  a license addendum which accompanies this license or by a written document which has been signed by both you and Symantec.  Should you have any questions concerning this Agreement, or if you desire to contact Symantec for any reason, please write: Symantec Customer Sales and Service, 10201 Torre Avenue, Cupertino, CA 95014. 


