Product Support

Notice: The support services outlined below are available at the time of release of this product. Symantec reserves the right to change or eliminate support services or options at any time.
Symantec PriorityCare Telephone Services
PriorityCare offers two "pay as you go" options:

PriorityCare 800 number
- $29 per call charged to your credit card (VISA, MasterCard or American Express).
- (800) 927-3991 Monday through Friday, 6:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m. Pacific time. 
PriorityCare 900 number
- $2.95 per minute after the first minute charged to your telephone bill.
- (900) 646-0007 Monday through Friday, 6:00 a. m. to 5:00 p. m. Pacific time.
Online Services
Online services provide a variety of electronic service and support options.

Internet
Technical support for Norton AntiVirus is available online. You will need set up an Internet connection and install a web browser to ensure that you connect successfully. (For more information about connecting to the Internet, please refer to the Internet help file shipped with this product.) The Internet address for the Norton AntiVirus Support Center is:
http://www.symantec.com/techsupp/nav/
After you connect to the Norton AntiVirus Support Center, you have quick access to the following services:

File download area
Download files such as product updates, the latest virus definitions, and documents about your product. To browse all the files in the Symantec file download section, connect to the Norton AntiVirus file download area at:
http://www.symantec.com/techsupp/nav/files_nav.html.

Frequently Asked Questions documents (also known as FAQs)
Read a document that contains commonly asked questions and answers. These documents are compiled by Symantec technicians and are updated frequently to reflect the support issues our technicians see each day.

Interactive support system
Submit a technical issue in plain text to our interactive support system. The system will ask you a series of related questions, much as a telephone technician would as he or she closes in on a solution to your problem. After a few follow up questions, the support system will display an answer or provide other technical support options.

Knowledge bases
Search the Symantec product knowledge base to find an answer to your support question. You can use a number of advanced search techniques to find the precise information you need quickly. If you are not sure how to perform advanced searches, information is available online.

Online discussion groups
Use your worldwide web browser to access the discussion group that focuses on your product. From the convenience of your browser, you can read discussions on line, send a message to a support technician, or search for a topic in the discussion area. If you send a note to an online technician, you can expect an answer within 24 hours (excluding weekends and holidays).

Symantec BBS (available for software downloads only)
	(541) 484-6669 for 28.8 Baud
CompuServe
	Type GO SYMANTEC at any ! prompt. 
America Online
	Type keyword: SYMANTEC
